Here we present the first large-scale, fine-grained reef fish dataset from the Gulf of Mexico - the Southeast Area Monitoring and Assessment Program Dataset 2021 (SEAMAPD21).

Automated image analysis of reef fish species in challenging environments, such as coastal Gulf of Mexico, are crucial for accurate fishery monitoring and stock assessments. As advanced computer vision techniques evolve in precision and capacity, previously difficult tasks such as fish species identification and count due to strong intra-species similarities and inter-species variations, have become feasible.

SEAMAPD21 was created to enable fishery scientists and researchers to process raw image-based data at high volumes at a much quicker rate than current manual methods. This open-source dataset contains 90,000 annotations for 130 species of fish from two annual surveys done in 2018 and 2019 in strategic areas of the Gulf of Mexico using baited remote underwater video systems to assess reef fish populations. We perform baseline experiments and document predictive classification results.


This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.
